Welcome to Ben’s nutrition tracking program. This program is designed to help users track their daily intake of food and allow them to monitor their diets over time. The program allows users to report each of their daily meals and view the nutritional information of each meal. Users can record any meal by adding new foods or creating recipes. Users can also view their health or nutritional progress with the program’s chart options. 

For all files to be read correctly, please be sure to update the file paths of each of the Excel and CSV files that are downloaded. 

The nutritional information of each food is based on the user's input, so the information's accuracy depends on the user’s source. The FDA nutrition labels on the food’s packaging are recommended to acquire the necessary nutritional information. If a food does not have a nutrition label, then visiting the FoodData Central on the United States Department of Agriculture website is recommended. Users do not need to enter information for every category, but filling out more categories will ensure more accurate information. 

The Estimated Energy Requirement (EER) is calculated based on the formulas provided in Anatomy and Physiology in Context by John Redden and Joe Crivello. The number of calories needed to gain or lose weight within a certain period is based on the user’s input, which is then applied to an interpolation function. The function uses the known value of eating 200 fewer calories each day for a week will cause a person to lose one pound. The daily values of each nutrient are calculated using the known values for a 2000-calorie diet and adjusting them by the ratio of the 2000 calories to the user’s EER. The caloric densities of each food are calculated by dividing the number of calories by the weight of the food per serving to get a density in kcal per gram. The MyPlate proportions chart is calculated based on the total weight of each food type consumed in the given period. The macronutrient proportions chart is calculated based on the number of calories of each macronutrient compared to the overall number of calories consumed. 

This program is not designed to replace or replicate a doctor or medical professional. All nutritional and health information has not been fact-checked by an expert medical professional, and therefore should not be taken as fact. If a user has any questions or concerns relating to their health, they should contact their medical professional.

This program was designed by Ben Williams. It was last updated on July 15, 2024. 
